release: v0.10.0 (#1074)
rero/rero-ils: RELEASE-NOTES.rst

Release notes
=============

v0.10.0
-------

> Known issues

Reviewer: Faut-il mettre cette section au tout début? Ou plutôt à la fin?

------------

There are some critical issues on the editor, that are known and are
going to be fixed by one of the next sprints (July 2020 or August 2020):

-  `#906 <https://github.com/rero/rero-ils/issues/906>`__: saving a document
   with edition responsibility is not possible.
-  `#1003 <https://github.com/rero/rero-ils/issues/1003>`__: multiple provision
   activity are lost when editing a document.
-  `#1035 <https://github.com/rero/rero-ils/issues/1035>`__: the navigation
   helper (*jump to*) is not always functioning.

User interface
--------------

Public interface
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  Keeps the active tab on the document or person detailed view on page
   reloads.

Professional interface
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  Renders the language menu with the same look as in the public
   interface:

   -  Uses the same icons.
   -  Removes the current language.
   -  Avoids to translate the language menu.

>    -  Adds a divider to separate language menu to the link to the help.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   -  Adds a divider to separate the language menu from the help link.
```

-  Takes the entire screen width. This is useful for the improvement of
   the editor.
-  Improves the document editor:

   -  Sets a max width for selects and inputs.
   -  Sets bold font weight for titles.
   -  Hides fields with unique value (as ``bf:Place``).
   -  Displays fields inline and makes this configurable through a HTML class
      in the JSON schema.
   -  Adds HTML class in the JSON schema to fix max width and title font
      size.

> -  Implements interface component to import bibliographic records from

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Implements an interface component to import bibliographic records from
```

>    an external source through the web (SRU protocol). The librarian

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   external sources through the web (SRU protocol). The librarian
```

> -  Allows to receive an issue (serials) through the professional

Reviewer 2: Allows to receive a serials issue

>    issues. The *Quick receipt* avoids the burden to manually create an item,

Reviewer 2: I read online that it is better to use `Quick Receive`. `Quick receipt` tend to be  receiving a signal on an electronic device

Reviewer 2: `avoids the burden to manually create an item when possible.` rephrase if possible.
receives automatically a regular issue and creates its corresponding item?

Author: @BadrAly For the receive/receipt you have to check with @pronguen.

Reviewer 3: I think it is not that important in the release note... we will have to decide for the interface

   searches in a regular search interface for the desired record, using
   a simple query (keywords for the author, title, date, IDs…), selects a
   record, gets a preview in two formats (the RERO ILS JSON rendered in HTML,
   and MARC). Once the desired record is identified, through an *Import*
   button, the record is loaded into the document editor to be modified and
   then added to the catalog. At this stage, only the BnF SRU service is
   implemented.
-  Fixes the redirection to the parent document after the deletion of an item.

>    This behaviour has been generalized to every parent/child resources through

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   This behaviour has been generalized to every parent/child resource relationship through
```

   a modification in the routing configuration.
-  Allows to receive an issue (serials) through the professional
   interface (see the acquisition section, below). The workflow begins on the
   holding detailed view and then continues on a dedicated view for serial
   issues. The *Quick receipt* avoids the burden to manually create an item,
   when possible.
-  Improves the transaction data displayed on the item detailed view,
   depending on the transaction type (checkout or request), to avoid
   displaying an empty pickup location name when this data is not
   relevant.

Circulation
-----------

> -  Adapts patron profile URL in the notification message to the running

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Adapts the patron profile URL in notification messages to the active
```

>       The librarian has to pick from a fixed list of 15 periodicities, which

Reviewer 2: `15 frequencies` ?
+ reference @ http://www.rdaregistry.info/termList/frequency/

Reviewer 3: periodicities is a synonym. That way, we avoid to repeat the same word in the sentence.

> -  Adds a CLI for notifications to start notification process with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Adds a CLI for notifications to start the notification process with
```

   ``invenio run   notifications process``.

Metadata
--------

> -  Adds translations mechanism for the resource editor (documents, items…). The

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Adds a translation mechanism for the resource editor (documents, items…). The
```

>    -  Sets the ``next_expected_date`` field as required if the frequency is not

Reviewer 2: Sets the ``next_expected_date`` field as required for regular frequencies ?

>    schemas keys translated in the `rero-ils` project are served through an API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   translated schema keys in the `rero-ils` project are served through an API
```

>    endpoint to the `rero-ils-ui` project, in order to avoid translating twice

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   endpoint to the `rero-ils-ui` project, in order to avoid translating them twice.
```

>    these keys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

-  Holding record, serial pattern:

   -  Adds a field to describe the publication frequency of a serial pattern.

>       The librarian has to pick into a fixed list of 15 periodicities, which

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      The librarian has to pick from a fixed list of 15 periodicities, which
```

>       are the RDA standard frequencies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      correspond to the standard RDA list.
```

   ``item.issue.status``.
-  Adds ``notes`` field in the item JSON schema. Four types of notes have been
   added, two regarding their audience (public or staff) and two regarding a
   circulation operation (checkin/checkout). The notes are displayed according
   to their type: public notes are publicly displayed on the document detail
   view of the public interface, staff notes are displayed on the same view but
   in the professional interface, checkin notes are displayed as a permanent
   alert as the item is checked in, and checkout notes are displayed as a
   circulation transaction occurs.
-  Uses ``JSONSCHEMAS_REPLACE_REFS = True`` to resolve JSON reference
   before serving the schema.
-  Removes the ``document-minimal-v0.0.1.json`` schema, as it is not
   used.

Acquisition
-----------

-  Receive an issue:

   -  Allows the librarian to receive new issues through the holdings detailed
      view. The system, based on the holdings pattern, computes the next issue
      pattern and expected date. The librarian is able to add irregular or
      exceptional issues.
   -  Updates automatically the ``next_expected_date`` after a successful

>       receipt of a regular issue (``expected_date`` of the receipt issue plus

Reviewer 2: if you change `receipt` above then you need to change it here as well

   -  Updates automatically the ``next_expected_date`` after a successful
      receipt of a regular issue (``expected_date`` of the receipt issue plus
      the pattern frequency).

API
---

-  Corrects the process used when starting a delayed bulk indexing
   (switch from ``invenio-indexer`` to ``IlsRecordindexer``).
-  Uses the standard JSON schema end point (``/schemas``).
-  Restricts the receipt of issue to librarians of the  holdings record's
   library.
-  The pattern preview API returns the ``issue_display_text`` (based on
   the preview template) and the ``expected_date``.
-  The holding API is able to receive the next regular issue.

Documentation
-------------

-  Documents all circulation actions, trying to be the most
   comprehensive in the context of a library network with complex internal
   circulation workflows. Actions, scenarios and chart can be found in
   ```/doc/README.md#circulation``
   <https://github.com/rero/rero-ils/blob/dev/doc/README.md#circulation>`__. In
   the same move, the babel configuration has been cleaned.
-  Removes unnecessary documentation in the ``LICENSE`` file.
-  Fixes the ``AUTHORS.rst`` file (wrong indentation).

> -  Improves the github issue templates to add automatically various labels to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  Improves the github issue templates to automatically add various labels to
```

   -  Avoids to translate the language menu.
   -  Adds a divider to separate language menu to the link to the help.

-  Takes the entire screen width. This is useful for the improvement of
   the editor.
-  Improves the document editor:

   -  Sets a max width for selects and inputs.
   -  Sets bold font weight for titles.
   -  Hides fields with unique value (as ``bf:Place``).
   -  Displays fields inline and makes this configurable through a HTML class
      in the JSON schema.
   -  Adds HTML class in the JSON schema to fix max width and title font
      size.

-  Implements interface component to import bibliographic records from
   an external source through the web (SRU protocol). The librarian
   searches in a regular search interface for the desired record, using
   a simple query (keywords for the author, title, date, IDs…), selects a
   record, gets a preview in two formats (the RERO ILS JSON rendered in HTML,
   and MARC). Once the desired record is identified, through an *Import*
   button, the record is loaded into the document editor to be modified and
   then added to the catalog. At this stage, only the BnF SRU service is
   implemented.

> -  Fix the redirection to the parent document after the deletion of an

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
-  Fixes the redirection to the parent document after the deletion of an
```

   item. This behaviour has been generalized to every parent/child
   resources through a modification in the routing configuration.
-  Allows to receive an issue (serials) through the professional
   interface (see the acquisition section, below). The workflow begins

>    on the holding detailed view and then goes on on a dedicated view for

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   on the holding detailed view and then continues on a dedicated view for
```

   serial issues. The *Quick receipt* avoids the burden to manually
   create an item, when possible.
-  Improves the transaction data displayed on the item detailed view,
   depending on the transaction type (checkout or request), to avoid
   displaying an empty pickup location name when this data is not
   relevant.

Circulation
-----------

-  Adapts patron profile URL in the notification message to the running
   RERO ILS instance.
-  Adds a CLI for notifications to start notification process with
   ``invenio run   notifications process``.

Metadata
--------

-  Adds translations mechanism for the resource editor (documents, items…). The
   schemas keys translated in the `rero-ils` project are served through an API
   endpoint to the `rero-ils-ui` project, in order to avoid translating twice
   these keys.
-  Holding record, serial pattern:

   -  Adds a field to describe the publication frequency of a serial
      pattern. The librarian has to pick into a fixed list of 15

>       periodicity, which are the RDA standard frequencies.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      periodicities, which are the RDA standard frequencies.
```

   then the ``issue`` field is required, to describe the issuance
   details and issue status. Issue items can only be attached to
   holdings of serial type.
   The field ``item_type`` that indicates the circulation category will
   be removed later. The item circulation status is described in the
   ``item.status`` field, while the issue status is described in the
   ``item.issue.status``.
-  Adds ``notes`` field in the item JSON schema. Four types of notes have been
   added, two regarding their audience (public or staff) and two regarding a
   circulation operation (checkin/checkout). The notes are displayed according
   to their type: public notes are publicly displayed on the document detail
   view of the public interface, staff notes are displayed on the same view but
   in the professional interface, checkin notes are displayed as a permanent
   alert as the item is checked in, and checkout notes are displayed as a
   circulation transaction occurs.
-  Uses ``JSONSCHEMAS_REPLACE_REFS = True`` to resolve JSON reference
   before serving the schema.
-  Removes the ``document-minimal-v0.0.1.json`` schema, as it is not
   used.

Acquisition
-----------

-  Receive an issue:

>    -  Allows the librarian to receive new issues through the holdings
>       record. The system, based on the holdings pattern, compute the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   -  Allows the librarian to receive new issues through the holding's
      detailed view. The system, based on the holding's pattern, computes the
```

      next issue pattern and expected date. The librarian is able to add
      irregular or exceptional issues.
   -  Updates automatically the ``next_expected_date`` after a

>       successful receive of a regular issue (``expected_date`` of the
>       receive issue plus the pattern frequency).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      successful receipt of a regular issue (``expected_date`` of the
      received issue plus the pattern frequency).
```

API
---

-  Corrects the process used when starting a delayed bulk indexing
   (switch from ``invenio-indexer`` to ``IlsRecordindexer``).
-  Uses the standard JSON schema end point (``/schemas``).

> -  Restricts the receipt of issue to the librarians of the owning
>    library of the holdings record.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
-  Restricts the receipt of issue to librarians of the holding record's library.
```

-  The pattern preview API returns the ``issue_display_text`` (based on
   the preview template) and the ``expected_date``.
-  The holding API is able to receive the next regular issue.

Documentation
-------------

-  Documents all circulation actions, trying to be the most
   comprehensive in the context of a library network with complex

>    internal circulation workflow. Actions, scenarios and chart can be

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   internal circulation workflows. Actions, scenarios and chart can be
```

   found in
   ```/doc/README.md#circulation`` <https://github.com/rero/rero-ils/blob/dev/doc/README.md#circulation>`__.
   In the same move, the babel configuration has been cleaned.
-  Removes unnecessary documentation in the ``LICENSE`` file.
-  Fixes the ``AUTHORS.rst`` file (wrong indentation).

> -  Improves the github issue templates to add automatically different
>    label to issue, depending on the type of issue (bug, correction,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
-  Improves the github issue templates to add automatically various
   labels to the issue, depending on the type of issue (bug, correction,
```

   enhancement, etc.). This should also ease the process of creating and

>    triage issues.

Reviewer 3: I think we cannot put a substantive in this place. It must be a verb (present participle).

```suggestion
   sorting issues.
```

-  Creates an API to expose which roles can be managed by the current
   logged user. Introduces a restriction to prevent the current user to
   delete itself.

Translation
-----------

> -  Fixes a wrong rule in the babel configuration that prevented strings

Reviewer 3: label configuration?

Author: @pronguen It's actually babel, the python tool for the translation mechanism.

   to be extracted from the document JSON schema.

Instance
--------

-  Upgrades assets utilities (``clean-css``, ``node-sass``\ …)
-  Fixes version number in the ``pyproject.toml`` file.
-  Uses enabled state of tasks already saved in REDIS.
-  Integrates ``invenio-sip2`` module, that can be installed with a new
   option for the ``bootstrap`` script.
-  The module ``rero-ils-ui`` uses the ``ng-core`` library in version
   ``v0.5.0``.

Scripts
~~~~~~~

-  Fixes ``server`` script to make use of the correct scheduler backend
   and prevents ``rero_ils.schedulers.RedisScheduler`` file creation.

Fixed issues
------------

-  `#802 <https://github.com/rero/rero-ils/issues/802>`__: In the

>    notification send to the patron, the patron profile URL isn’t adapted

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   notification sent to the patron, the patron profile URL isn’t adapted
```

   to the running RERO ILS instance URL.
-  `#821 <https://github.com/rero/rero-ils/issues/821>`__: The switch
   library menu of the professional interface should be better

>    positioned. The menu itself should directly inform the librarian
>    which library is selected. Further more, the switch library menu

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   positioned. The menu itself should directly inform the librarian about
   which library is selected. Furthermore, the switch library menu
```

   should be displayed on every page of the professional interface, not
   only on the home page. When another library is selected, the page is

>    reloaded with the new context, with the possible result to lose data.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   reloaded with the new context, implying a possible data loss.
```
